functorch contribution (#779)
Quansight/Quansight-website: apps/consulting/posts/review-functorch-contribution.md

---
title: 'Review: Functorch Contribution'
published: September 22, 2023
author: kshiteej-kalambarkar
description: '`functorch` (now `torch.func`) is a PyTorch module to provide composable transforms like JAX. It provides transforms like `grad`, `vmap`, `vjp`, etc. to allow user to easily compute Jacobian vector products and vectorize the function. And being composable, one can compute per-sample gradients simply by using `vmap(grad(model))`.'
---

<base target="_blank" />

> `functorch` (now `torch.func`) is a PyTorch module to provide composable transforms like JAX. It provides transforms like `grad`, `vmap`, `vjp`, etc. to allow user to easily compute Jacobian vector products and vectorize the function. And being composable, one can compute per-sample gradients simply by using `vmap(grad(model))`.

Reviewer: It provides transforms -> Repetition of to provide and transforms.
Consider something along the lines of:
>This module exposes higher order functions like `grad`, `vmap` and `vjp`. These functional transforms allow the user to compute in a functional way transformations on the whole model at once.

> `functorch` (now `torch.func`) is a PyTorch module to provide composable transforms like JAX. It provides transforms like `grad`, `vmap`, `vjp`, etc. to allow user to easily compute Jacobian vector products and vectorize the function. And being composable, one can compute per-sample gradients simply by using `vmap(grad(model))`.

Reviewer: A sentence should not start with "And". As we discussed, consider rewriting the whole paragraph :)

> Below are some of the things that I got to work on:

Reviewer: Prefer writing in first person plural / talk in the name of the project as a whole, e.g.

> Below are some topics that we implemented in `torch.func`.

## Adding Batching Rule for `vmap`

> `vmap` is a transform which takes a function `func` that runs on a single datapoint and returns a function which can handle a batch of data effectively vectorizing it. Semantically, it runs a `for`-loop over all data points and stacks all the results together (but does it more optimally than the for-loop version.)

Reviewer: > (but does it more optimally than the for-loop version.)

It does so efficiently by fusing all these operations into one and often vectorizing this computation. Consider the following example:

Example:
```python
import torch

# Written to handle only single sample.
# Calling it with batched input, will
# result in incorrect output.
def my_simple_model(input, weight, bias):

>     return input.sum(0) @ weight + bias

Reviewer: Consider rather than using he odd `input.sum(0)` construction, doing the more realistic `torch.mv(weight, input)`, for example.

batched_inputs = torch.randn(3, 3, 3, 3)
weight = torch.randn(3, 1) * 5
bias = torch.randn([])

# For Loop version
expected = []
for input in batched_inputs:
    expected.append(my_simple_model(input, weight, bias))
expected = torch.stack(expected)

> # Vmap

Reviewer: Add a small comment explaining `in_dims`

actual = torch.vmap(my_simple_model, in_dims=(0, None, None))(batched_inputs, weight, bias)

# Incorrectly calling the function (silently incorrect result)
incorrect = my_simple_model(batched_inputs, weight, bias)

# Results don't match.

> assert torch.abs(expected - incorrect).sum() > 1e-3

Reviewer: No need to show how not to use it :P

# Verify that the results match.
torch.testing.assert_close(expected, actual)

```

> To support `vmap` for PyTorch operators, we need to specify the batching rule i.e. how to apply the given operator for a batched input. This is similar to how PyTorch internally specifies the rule for gradient computation for operators. Batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched inputs and computes the batched operation. In the above example to support `vmap` for `my_simple_model`, we need to know the batching rule for `torch.sum`, `@`/`torch.matmul` and `+`/`torch.add` to be able to vectorize our model. PyTorch has a lot of operators and we need to have coverage for all the operators to seamlessly support optimized `vmap` (yes, there is a `for`-loop fallback in case an operator is not supported so as not to crash the code).

Reviewer: >which takes one or multiple batched inputs

what is a batched input?

Reviewer: >(yes, there is a `for`-loop fallback in case an operator is not supported so as not to crash the code)

Split the parens into its own sentence and drop the yes / change it by a different connector.

> PyTorch operators can be very roughly categorized as primitive (internally CompositeExplicitAutograd) vs composite (internally CompositeImplicitAutograd). Composite operators are derived from the primitive operators. So, to have complete coverage, we need to have batching rules for all the primitive operators and we get the rules for composite operators for free.

Reviewer: nit. very roughly -> roughly

Reviewer: nit. Put Composite* works within backticks.

Reviewer: What does it mean that a "composite operator is derived from a primitive operator"?

Reviewer: Don't start a sentence with `so`. In this case, just drop the so or use another connector like "for this reason"

Reviewer: The cadence of the last sentence is a bit off. You are saying "to have A, we need B and we get A". Consider rewriting it

> To add a batching rules for a primitive operator, we can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to add batching support for an operator
```

Note also that you are talking about "primitive operators" all across, but you have not defined what a primitive operator is.

> * Manually write the batching rule : https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L25-L34

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Manually write the batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.dot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L25-L34). 
```
In general, avoid putting raw links, particularly if they are huge.

> * Decompose the operators using other primitive operators for which we already have a batching rule : https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L35-L37

Reviewer: the operators -> operators.

Again, what is primitive operators? Also, this is not correct. You can simply decompose an operator into other operators. Simply remove the word primitive here and we should be better.

designed to offer JAX-like transforms. Within this module, various higher-order
functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the parameters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.'
---

<base target="_blank" />

`torch.func` (previously known as `functorch`) is a PyTorch module designed to
offer JAX-like transforms. Within this module, various higher-order
functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the parameters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.

Here are a few of the tasks we had the opportunity to tackle:

> ## Adding Batching Rules for `vmap`

Reviewer 2: @kshitij12345 @lezcano What contributions did Quansight make here? The section doesn't say.

Reviewer: Discussed over slack

# For Loop version
expected = []
for input in batched_inputs:
    expected.append(my_simple_model(input, weight))
expected = torch.stack(expected)

# Vmap
# `in_dims` specifies the dimension that should be mapped over.
# In this case, we map only over 0-dim of `batched_inputs`.
actual = torch.vmap(my_simple_model, in_dims=(0, None))(batched_inputs, weight)

# Verify that the results match.
torch.testing.assert_close(expected, actual)
```

To support `vmap` for PyTorch operators, we need to specify the batching rule
i.e. how to map the given function over a batched input.
A batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched
inputs and computes the batched operation. In the above example to support
`vmap` for `my_simple_model`, we need to know the batching rule for `torch.dot`
and `torch.relu` to be able to vectorize our model.
PyTorch has more than [2000 operators](https://dev-discuss.pytorch.org/t/where-do-the-2000-pytorch-operators-come-from-more-than-you-wanted-to-know/373)
and we need to have coverage for all of them
to support `vmap`. That being said, there is a `for`-loop
fallback in case an operator is not supported so as not to crash the code.

> From the point of view of adding batch rule, PyTorch operators can be roughly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the point of view of adding batching rules, PyTorch operators can be roughly
```

> categorised as primitive or composite.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
categorized as primitive or composite.
```

Primitive operators are the ones for which we specify the batching and
gradient rules. Composite operators are implemented using these primitive operators
and other simpler composite operators. If we implement batching rules for every
primitive operator, we automatically get the batching rules for composite operators.

There are two ways to add batching support for an operator:
* Manually write the batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.dot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L25-L34)
* Decompose operators using other operators for which we already have a
batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.vdot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L35-L37)

> ## Composite Compliance

Reviewer 2: Same, what contributions did Quansight make here? The section doesn't say

Reviewer: https://github.com/Quansight/Quansight-website/pull/779#discussion_r1343700515

As mentioned earlier, we obtain batching rules effortlessly for composite operators
but this holds true only under certain constraints. These constraints include
refraining from accessing the tensor's data pointer and avoiding the use of
`out=` variants of the operators.
For the full list of constraints, see [this documentation](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/main/aten/src/ATen/native/README.md#composite-compliance).
When all these hold for an operator, we say that it is composite compliant.

Unfortunately, operators that claim to be composite may occasionally deviate
from these constraints. While such deviations may not pose issues when utilizing
plain eager PyTorch, they can lead to complications when using `torch.func`
transformations.

### Testing for Composite Compliance

> We have tests to ensure that operators tagged as composite are indeed composite

Reviewer: same as above

as well as their [backward formula](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/40b2c796dcae5768ff5de279b13914d5948fd414/test/test_ops.py#L1459)
and [forward AD formula](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/40b2c796dcae5768ff5de279b13914d5948fd414/test/test_ops.py#L1476).
Testing both the backward and forward formulas is crucial because we may encounter
scenarios involving `vmap(vjp(fn))` or `vmap(jvp(fn))`.

## Support for `chunk_size` in `vmap` and `jacrev`

The computation of the Jacobian can be memory-intensive, and users have raised
concerns about related issues, (e.g., [this one](https://github.com/pytorch/functorch/issues/680)).
In response to these concerns, we have introduced a feature that allows for the
calculation of `jacrev` and `vmap` in smaller, user-defined chunks, determined
by the `chunk_size` argument. This adjustment serves to reduce the peak memory
usage during the computation process. With this argument, users can specify the
number of rows of the Jacobian to be computed at once. This enhancement was

> incorporated into the [jacrev PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/89376)

Reviewer 2: "was incorporated" ... by Quansight? If so, we should say so explicitly, instead of using passive voice here.

Reviewer: Can be reworded as "We implemented this feature in [ŧhis PR]".

and the [vmap PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/91157).

## Support for `linearize` transform

> The "jvp" transform is designed to calculate both `f(x)` and the Jacobian-vector

Reviewer 2: Is jvp supposed to be quoted here instead of in code formatting?

Reviewer: yep, this should be code formatting. Good catch.

product. Consequently, even when one intends to compute the Jacobian-vector
product for fixed inputs, the `jvp` transform still redundantly evaluates `f(x)`.

> To address such scenarios, the `linearize` transform comes into play. This

Reviewer: Fair. Let's rewrite it as
```suggestion
For these scenarios, we have the `linearize` transform. This transform only computes the Jacobian-vector
product, and avoids evaluating `f(x)` whenever possible.
```

transform proves valuable when multiple `jvp` computations are needed for
constant inputs.

Note that, in order to implement this efficiently, `linearize` stores some
intermediate computations, which can result in higher memory requirements compared
to directly applying `jvp`. The `linearize` transform was implemented in this

> [PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/94173).

Reviewer: sure. In general, we can always use the "we" to refer to a somewhat impersonal "we", as most of these things, even if Kshiteej implemented them, were the result of a close collaboration with Meta.
Also, as discussed, the point of these posts should not be an enumeration of things that we have done, but a list of things in which we have collaborated with Meta. It would be unfair to the Meta engineers to claim ownership over many of these, as they also did quite a lot of the heavy lifting when it comes to the design of all of them.

> [PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/94173).

Reviewer 2: Nod, based on our Slack conversation, a lot of my comments/questions around Quansight authorship are not nearly as pressing/relevant. I'm going to put a sentence or two in the marketing intro to the post that I think will cover everything. Will see when you review.

## Support of `torch.func` transforms within `torch.compile`

PyTorch 2.0 introduced a JIT compiler under `torch.compile`, similar to `jax.jit`.
This opened up the possibility of compiling the existing transforms to enhance
their performance. To understand how these transforms can be compiled, it is
essential to discuss the workings of the three layers within the compilation
stack, namely `dynamo`, `aot_autograd`, and `inductor`.

The `dynamo` and `aot_autograd` layers primarily focus on capturing the
computation graph and converting the captured operations into more basic operations.
This captured graph is then passed to `inductor`, the compiler. `inductor` then applies

> various optimizations passes before generating specialized code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
various optimization passes before generating specialized code.
```

To gain insight into the different stages of this stack,
let us compile a simple program in debug mode.

```python
# Run this file with `TORCH_COMPILE_DEBUG=1`

import torch

def fn(x):
    return torch.sin(x) + torch.square(x)

torch.compile(fn)(torch.randn(4, 4))
```

**dynamo**: The primary responsibility of dynamo is to trace the Python program
and convert it into the FX graph format. The FX graph generated by `dynamo`
represents PyTorch operations from the public API, such as `torch.sin`.

> Below, you can observe the graph captured by `dynamo`.

Reviewer 2: How are we observing a graph here? There's no figure. Does the reader have to install PyTorch and run this code in order to be shown a graph?

Reviewer 2: Hmmm, interesting. I was expecting figures to illustrate the graphs.

But -- now I'm guessing: are these graphs autogenerated code? And thus there are no figures to be shown for the graphs, just the autogen code?

Reviewer: yep, exactly. We call them graphs as they are generated by a tracer. This is standard in the compilers lingo. Feel free to add a small point in the post clarifying this.

```python
class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):
    def forward(self, L_x_ : torch.Tensor):
        l_x_ = L_x_

        # File: test/test_scratch.py:334, code: return torch.sin(x) + torch.square(x)
        sin = torch.sin(l_x_)
        square = torch.square(l_x_);  l_x_ = None
        add = sin + square;  sin = square = None
        return (add,)
```

**aot_autograd**: `aot_autograd` retraces all PyTorch operations to
produce a lower-level FX graph using `aten` functions (from the private API).
Additionally, `aot_autograd` decomposes composite operations into primitive
operations. For instance, a composite operation like `torch.square` is traced

> down to `torch.pow(x, 2)`.

Reviewer 3: If we're being pedantic, this doesn't happen at the torch IR level. it goes `torch.square` -> `aten.square` -> `aten.pow`
```suggestion
down to `aten.pow(x, 2)`.
```

```c++
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0, float* out_ptr0) {
  for (long i0 = 0L; i0 < 16L; i0 += 8L) {
    auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_ptr0 + i0);
    auto tmp1 = tmp0.sin();
    auto tmp2 = tmp0 * tmp0;
    auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
    tmp3.store(out_ptr0 + i0);
  }
}
```

### Teaching `dynamo` about `torch.func` transforms

Now that we have a basic understanding of how `torch.compile` works, let us
delve into how we extended the support for `torch.func` transforms. Given that
`aot_autograd` is already capable of tracing through the transforms, our task is
to teach `dynamo` to validate whether the user-defined function intended for
transformation is free of side effects affecting the global state or graph-breaks.
In cases where the function meets these criteria, we can put
the `torch.func` transform into the FX graph and delegate the remaining
processing to the lower layers of the stack.

However, if the function cannot be successfully traced due to its failure to
meet the above constraints, we fallback to the eager implementation, and this
particular portion of the code remains uncompiled.

> Let us have a look what `dynamo` and `aot_autograd` generates when we compile

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us have a look at what `dynamo` and `aot_autograd` generates when we compile a
```

# Run this file with `TORCH_COMPILE_DEBUG=1`

import torch

def user_fn(x):
    return torch.sin(x)

def wrapper_fn(x):
    return torch.func.grad(user_fn)(x)

torch.compile(wrapper_fn)(torch.randn(()))

```

The output from `dynamo` is presented below. The initial `GraphModule` pertains
to the `wrapper_fn`, clearly indicating a call to `grad` on the traced representation
of the user's function intended for transformation. Subsequently, the second
`GraphModule` corresponds to the function provided by the user. In this instance,
our function didn't have side effects and graph-breaks. Thus, we were able to
successfully trace through this program in one graph.

```python
class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):
    def forward(self, L_x_ : torch.Tensor):
        l_x_ = L_x_
        
        # File: torch/_functorch/apis.py:363, code:
        # return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
        grad_body_0 = self.grad_body_0
        grad_proxy = torch.func.grad(grad_body_0, 0, False);  grad_body_0 = None
        call = grad_proxy.__call__(l_x_);  grad_proxy = l_x_ = None
        contiguous = call.contiguous();  call = None
        return (contiguous,)
        

>     class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):

Author: Yes, it is nested and intentional :)

>     class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):

Reviewer: This is the function that's traced within `grad`. It's true that this representation could be a bit more explicit, but these are just logs that give a rough idea of what's going on.

In particular, this GraphModule is the class of what in the previous function is called `self.grad_body_0`.

functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the parameters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.'
---

<base target="_blank" />

`torch.func` (previously known as `functorch`) is a PyTorch module designed to
offer JAX-like transforms. Within this module, various higher-order
functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the parameters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.

Here are a few of the tasks we had the opportunity to tackle:

## Adding Batching Rule for `vmap`
`vmap` is a transformation that accepts a function that operates on non-batched

> data and returns a new function that operates on batched input.

Reviewer 3: Consider making these consistent. "non-batched data" vs "batched input". Maybe non-batched input or even {non-,}batched tensors.

When processing a batched input, an additional
dimension, denoted by `in_dims`, is introduced to indicate which dimension to
apply the function over. Conceptually, it emulates a `for` loop that iterates
through all the data points and stacks the results. Importantly, it performs this
operation efficiently by pushing the `for` loop into the PyTorch operations,

> effectively vectorizing the computation.

Reviewer 3: Vectorizing doesn't seem quite right here (even though it's called vmap).
```suggestion
allowing the batches to run in parallel.
```

Consider the following example:
```python
import torch

# Written to handle only single sample.
def my_simple_model(feature_vec, weight):
    return torch.dot(feature_vec, weight).relu()

batch_size = 4
batched_inputs = torch.randn(batch_size, 3)
weight = torch.randn(3)

# For Loop version
expected = []
for input in batched_inputs:
    expected.append(my_simple_model(input, weight))
expected = torch.stack(expected)

# Vmap
# `in_dims` specifies the dimension that should be mapped over.
# In this case, we map only over 0-dim of `batched_inputs`.
actual = torch.vmap(my_simple_model, in_dims=(0, None))(batched_inputs, weight)

# Verify that the results match.
torch.testing.assert_close(expected, actual)
```

To support `vmap` for PyTorch operators, we need to specify the batching rule
i.e. how to map the given function over a batched input.
A batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched
inputs and computes the batched operation. In the above example to support
`vmap` for `my_simple_model`, we need to know the batching rule for `torch.dot`
and `torch.relu` to be able to vectorize our model.

> PyTorch has a lot of operators and we need to have coverage for all of them

Reviewer 3: Consider quantifying "a lot". I believe it's around 2000 if you include overloads.

to support `vmap`. That being said, there is a `for`-loop
fallback in case an operator is not supported so as not to crash the code.

PyTorch operators can be roughly categorized as primitive (internally

> `CompositeExplicitAutograd`) vs composite (internally `CompositeImplicitAutograd`).

Reviewer 3: This distinction is confusing since both are composite. It's also inaccurate since most core operators are probably `CPU, CUDA` dispatch.

Author: Hmm, agreed. I think we should avoid using these internal terms then. How does the following sound?

> From the point of view of adding batch rule, PyTorch operators can be roughly categorised as primitive and composite.

Reviewer 3: NIT: "primitive or composite" othewise LGTM

Primitive operators are the ones for which we specify the batching and

> gradient rules. Composite operators are implemented using these the primitive operators

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
gradient rules. Composite operators are implemented using these primitive operators
```

and other simpler composite operators. If we implement batching rules for every
primitive operator, we automatically get the batching rules for composite operators.

There are two ways to add batching support for an operator:
* Manually write the batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.dot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L25-L34)
* Decompose operators using other operators for which we already have a
batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.vdot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L35-L37)

## Composite Compliance

As mentioned earlier, we obtain batching rules effortlessly for composite operators
but this holds true only under certain constraints. These constraints include requirements

> like refraining from accessing the tensor's data pointer and avoiding the use of

Reviewer 3: "these constraints include requirements like" seems redundant, it could just be "These constraints include refraining from ..."

## Support for `chunk_size` in `vmap` and `jacrev`
The computation of the Jacobian can be memory-intensive, and users have raised
concerns about related issues, (e.g., [this one](https://github.com/pytorch/functorch/issues/680)).
In response to these concerns, we have introduced a feature that allows for the
calculation of `jacrev` and `vmap` in smaller, user-defined chunks, determined
by the `chunk_size` argument. This adjustment serves to reduce the peak memory
usage during the computation process. With this argument, users can specify the
number of rows of the Jacobian to be computed at once. This enhancement was
incorporated into the [jacrev PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/89376)
and the [vmap PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/91157).

## Support for `linearize` transform

The "jvp" transform is designed to calculate both `f(x)` and the Jacobian-vector
product. Consequently, even when one intends to compute the Jacobian-vector
product for fixed inputs, the `jvp` transform still redundantly evaluates `f(x)`.
To address such scenarios, the `linearize` transform comes into play. This
transform proves valuable when multiple `jvp` computations are needed for

> constant `primals`.

Reviewer 3: Should we define primals here?

Author: Would replacing it with `inputs` be ok? We do talk about it 

> Consequently, even when one intends to compute the Jacobian-vector product for fixed inputs, the `jvp` transform still redundantly evaluates `f(x)`.

Reviewer 3: Yeah inputs is fine

requested. This is useful for transforms like `grad`, `vjp`, etc. Below, you can see the
graph generated by `aot_autograd` for the above program.

```python
def forward(self, arg0_1: f32[3, 3]):
    # File: test/test_scratch.py:334, code: return torch.sin(x) + torch.square(x)
    sin: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.sin.default(arg0_1)
    pow_1: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.pow.Tensor_Scalar(arg0_1, 2);  arg0_1 = None
    add: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.add.Tensor(sin, pow_1);  sin = pow_1 = None
    return (add,)

```

**inductor**: As discussed above, it is inductor's job to apply optimizations and
generate specialized code. In this case, it has fused `sin` and `square` to run
within the same `for`-loop. This allows the generated program to do more compute
per read/write effectively improving the memory bandwidth utilization.

```c++
#include "/tmp/torchinductor_kshiteej/ib/cibrnuq56cxamjj4krp4zpjvsirbmlolpbnmomodzyd46huzhdw7.h"
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0, float* out_ptr0) {
  for (long i0 = 0L; i0 < 8L; i0 += 8L) {
    auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_ptr0 + i0);
    auto tmp1 = tmp0.sin();

>     auto tmp2 = tmp0.cos();

Reviewer 3: Is this code from a different example? There's no `cos` in your python code.

Also would the triton code be nicer to show here?

Author: Ouch, this is from another example. I will try triton code and see which seems better. Thanks!

Author: I think C++ code is more readable. Wdyt?

Triton (I think this is nice without the `pointwise` decorator)
```python
@pointwise(size_hints=[16], filename=__file__, meta={'signature': {0: '*fp32', 1: '*fp32', 2: 'i32'}, 'device': 0, 'device_type': 'cuda', 'constants': {}, 'mutated_arg_names': [], 'autotune_hints': set(), 'kernel_name': 'triton_poi_fused_add_pow_sin_0', 'configs': [instance_descriptor(divisible_by_16=(0, 1), equal_to_1=(), ids_of_folded_args=(), divisible_by_8=())]})
@triton.jit
def triton_(in_ptr0, out_ptr0, xnumel, XBLOCK : tl.constexpr):
    xnumel = 9
    xoffset = tl.program_id(0) * XBLOCK
    xindex = xoffset + tl.arange(0, XBLOCK)[:]
    xmask = xindex < xnumel
    x0 = xindex
    tmp0 = tl.load(in_ptr0 + (x0), xmask)
    tmp1 = tl.sin(tmp0)
    tmp2 = tmp0 * tmp0
    tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2
    tl.store(out_ptr0 + (x0), tmp3, xmask)
```

C++
```c++
#include "/tmp/torchinductor_kshiteej/ib/cibrnuq56cxamjj4krp4zpjvsirbmlolpbnmomodzyd46huzhdw7.h"
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0, float* out_ptr0) {
  for (long i0 = 0L; i0 < 8L; i0 += 8L) {
    auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_ptr0 + i0);
    auto tmp1 = tmp0.sin();
    auto tmp2 = tmp0 * tmp0;
    auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
    tmp3.store(out_ptr0 + i0);
  }

#pragma omp simd simdlen(4)
  for (long i0 = 8L; i0 < 9L; i0 += 1L) {
    auto tmp0 = in_ptr0[i0];
    auto tmp1 = std::sin(tmp0);
    auto tmp2 = decltype(tmp0)(tmp0 * tmp0);
    auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
    out_ptr0[i0] = tmp3;
  }
}
```

Reviewer: I vote for the C++ code but removing the include, and makign the input a multiple of 8, so that we can remove the second loop.

Reviewer 3: I think it's fine to drop the `@pointwise` decorator for the triton code.

Author: Have opted for C++ code but with input of size 16.

```c++
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0, float* out_ptr0) {
  for (long i0 = 0L; i0 < 16L; i0 += 8L) {
    auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_ptr0 + i0);
    auto tmp1 = tmp0.sin();
    auto tmp2 = tmp0 * tmp0;
    auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
    tmp3.store(out_ptr0 + i0);
  }
}
```

        
        # File: torch/_functorch/apis.py:363, code:
        # return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
        grad_body_0 = self.grad_body_0
        grad_proxy = torch.func.grad(grad_body_0, 0, False);  grad_body_0 = None
        call = grad_proxy.__call__(l_x_);  grad_proxy = l_x_ = None
        contiguous = call.contiguous();  call = None
        return (contiguous,)
        
    class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):
        def forward(self, l_x_):
            # No stacktrace found for following nodes
            _set_grad_enabled = torch._C._set_grad_enabled(True)

            # File: test/test_scratch.py:382, code: return torch.sin(x)
            sin = torch.sin(l_x_);  l_x_ = None

            # No stacktrace found for following nodes
            _set_grad_enabled_1 = torch._C._set_grad_enabled(True)
            return sin
```

The graph shown above is handed over to `aot_autograd` for the subsequent phase
of the compilation process. `aot_autograd` performs a trace through the
transformation, resulting in the generation of the transformed graph. This
explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`, as the transformation

> has effectively altered the operation from what was originally present in our function.

Reviewer 3: We see `cos` because it's the backward of `sin`, right? It would be nice to highlight that aot_autograd has traced both forward and backward and simplified the graph to just the backward computation.

Author: How does this patch look?

```patch
-explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`, as the transformation
-has effectively altered the operation from what was originally present in our function.
+explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`. `aot_autograd`
+has traced through the forward and backward graph as we have applied `grad` transform
+and optimized away the forward computation as `grad` discards that value.
```

    # code: return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
    full: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.full.default([], 1, dtype = torch.float32,
                                              layout = torch.strided,
                                              device = device(type='cpu'),
                                              pin_memory = False)
    cos: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.cos.default(arg0_1);  arg0_1 = None
    mul: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.mul.Tensor(full, cos);  full = cos = None
    return (mul,)
```

The inclusion of `torch.func` support within `torch.compile` is currently under
active development. At present, our support extends
to the compilation of `grad` and `vmap`. However, it is important to note that
there are certain [limitations](https://pytorch.org/docs/main/torch.compiler_faq.html#limitations)
that restrict the range of cases we can compile.

Looking ahead, our roadmap aims to extend the support for all transforms with
minimal limitations, providing a more comprehensive compilation support for `torch.func`
transforms

## Closing Remarks
This collective effort has been made achievable through the contributions of the

> PyTorch team at Quansight, as well as from Richard Zou and Horace He from Meta.

Reviewer 3: Should we be more specific about what Quansight's involvement was here? It's not really clear reading this how much was done by us vs Meta people.

Author: Would rephrasing it as
> This collective effort has been made achievable through the contributions of the
PyTorch team at Quansight with help and guidance from Richard Zou and Horace He from Meta.

But it is worth mentioning that Richard and Horace added a lot of batch rules themselves and IIRC, Richard added the `operator` test for Composite Compliance.

Reviewer: What about
> This project was yet another instance of the tight collaboration between Quansight and Meta within PyTorch. In particular, we would like to thank Richard Zou and Horace He, the functorch creators, for all the design discussions and guidance throughout these years.

Author: Will use this, thanks!

        
        # File: torch/_functorch/apis.py:363, code:
        # return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
        grad_body_0 = self.grad_body_0
        grad_proxy = torch.func.grad(grad_body_0, 0, False);  grad_body_0 = None
        call = grad_proxy.__call__(l_x_);  grad_proxy = l_x_ = None
        contiguous = call.contiguous();  call = None
        return (contiguous,)
        
    class GraphModule(torch.nn.Module):
        def forward(self, l_x_):
            # No stacktrace found for following nodes
            _set_grad_enabled = torch._C._set_grad_enabled(True)

            # File: test/test_scratch.py:382, code: return torch.sin(x)
            sin = torch.sin(l_x_);  l_x_ = None

            # No stacktrace found for following nodes
            _set_grad_enabled_1 = torch._C._set_grad_enabled(True)
            return sin
```

The graph shown above is handed over to `aot_autograd` for the subsequent phase
of the compilation process. `aot_autograd` performs a trace through the
transformation, resulting in the generation of the transformed graph. This
explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`. `aot_autograd`

> has traced through the forward and backward graph as we have applied `grad` transform
> and optimized away the forward computation as `grad` discards that value.

Reviewer 3: NIT: 
```suggestion
has traced through the forward and backward graph, as we have applied the `grad` transform,
then optimized away the forward computation as `grad` discards that value.
```

designed to offer JAX-like transforms. Within this module, various higher-order
functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the paramters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.'
---

<base target="_blank" />

`torch.func` (previously known as `functorch`) is a PyTorch module designed to
offer JAX-like transforms. Within this module, various higher-order
functions, such as `grad`, `vmap`, and `vjp` are made accessible. These
transforms help users to easily compute gradients for the paramters of their model
or write batch-size agnostic code. The beauty of these transformations lies in
their ability to compose with one another. Thanks to this, the process of
calculating per-sample gradients becomes the straightforward application of
`vmap(grad(model))`.

Here are a few of the tasks we had the opportunity to tackle:

## Adding Batching Rule for `vmap`

> `vmap` is a transformation that accepts a function `func` that operaters on non-batched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`vmap` is a transformation that accepts a function that operates on non-batched
```
Run the whole test through a spell checker. Removing the python code, you can simply paste it on google docs and run its spell checker, for example.

> data. It then generates a new function capable of applying the
> given function to a batched input. When processing a batched input, an additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data and returns a new function that operates on batched inputs.
When processing a batched input, an additional
```

apply the function over. Conceptually, it emulates a `for` loop that iterates
through all the data points and stacks the results. Importantly, it performs this
operation efficiently by pushing the `for` loop into the PyTorch operations,
effectively vectorizing the computation.

Consider the following example:
```python
import torch

# Written to handle only single sample.
def my_simple_model(feature_vec, weight):
    return torch.dot(feature_vec, weight).relu()

batch_size = 4
batched_inputs = torch.randn(batch_size, 3)
weight = torch.randn(3)

# For Loop version
expected = []
for input in batched_inputs:
    expected.append(my_simple_model(input, weight))
expected = torch.stack(expected)

# Vmap
# `in_dims` specifies the dimension that should be mapped over.
# In this case, we map only over 0-dim of `batched_inputs`.
actual = torch.vmap(my_simple_model, in_dims=(0, None))(batched_inputs, weight)

# Verify that the results match.
torch.testing.assert_close(expected, actual)
```

To support `vmap` for PyTorch operators, we need to specify the batching rule
i.e. how to map the given function over a batched input. This is similar to how

> PyTorch internally specifies the rule for gradient computation for operators.

Reviewer: Let's remove the gradient computation example, as it assumes that the user knows how autograd is implemented. You are explaining how to implement this transformation in the next line anyway.

> Batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched
```

inputs and computes the batched operation. In the above example to support
`vmap` for `my_simple_model`, we need to know the batching rule for `torch.dot`
and `torch.relu` to be able to vectorize our model.

> PyTorch has a lot of operators and we need to have coverage for all the
> operators to seamlessly support optimized `vmap`. There is a `for`-loop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyTorch has a lot of operators and we need to have coverage for all of them
to support `vmap`. That being said, there is a `for`-loop
```

PyTorch operators can be roughly categorized as primitive (internally
`CompositeExplicitAutograd`) vs composite (internally `CompositeImplicitAutograd`).
Primitive operators are the ones for which we specify the batching and
gradient rules. Composite operators are implemented using these the primitive operators
and other simpler composite operators. If we implement batching rules for every
primitive operator, we automatically get the batching rules for composite operators.

There are two ways to add batching support for an operator:
* Manually write the batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.dot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L25-L34)
* Decompose operators using other operators for which we already have a
batching rule. See for example the [batching rule for torch.vdot](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/b30ee35a6f141d3247a24fd09f96ea50a7e2b3c7/aten/src/ATen/functorch/BatchRulesLinearAlgebra.cpp#L35-L37)

## Composite Compliance

As mentioned earlier, we obtain batching rules effortlessly for composite operators

> but this holds true only when certain constraints. These constraints include requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but this holds true under certain constraints. These constraints include requirements
```

Unfortunately, operators that claim to be composite may occasionally deviate
from these constraints. While such deviations may not pose issues when utilizing
plain eager PyTorch, they can lead to complications when using `torch.func`
transformations.

### Testing for Composite Compliance

We have tests to ensure that operators tagged as composite are indeed composite
compliant. We test this by creating a new subclass `CompositeCompliantTensor`
that utilizes the `__torch_dispatch__` mechanism. This mechanism is invoked for
all operators in the testing, enabling us to detect any non-compliant behavior
exhibited by an operator.

Our testing approach involves running tests on the actual [operator](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/40b2c796dcae5768ff5de279b13914d5948fd414/test/test_ops.py#L1446),
as well as their [backward formula](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/40b2c796dcae5768ff5de279b13914d5948fd414/test/test_ops.py#L1459)
and [forward AD formula](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/blob/40b2c796dcae5768ff5de279b13914d5948fd414/test/test_ops.py#L1476).
Testing both the backward and forward formulas is crucial because we may encounter

> scenarios involving `vmap(vjp(fn))` or `vmap(jvp(fn))`, which require these
> formulas to comply with the composite compliance.

Reviewer: avoid repetition
```suggestion
scenarios involving `vmap(vjp(fn))` or `vmap(jvp(fn))`.
```

### Fixing the operators on a case by case basis

Once we had the tests and the list of failing operators, it was a matter of
going through the list, verifying what was the cause of the operator being

> non-compliant and devising a fix for the same.

Reviewer: Fairly obvious. Better remove.

## Support for `chunk_size` in `vmap` and `jacrev`
The computation of the Jacobian can be memory-intensive, and users have raised

> concerns about related issues, (eg. [this one](https://github.com/pytorch/functorch/issues/680)).

Reviewer: --pedantic
```suggestion
concerns about related issues, (e.g., [this one](https://github.com/pytorch/functorch/issues/680)).
```

calculation of `jacrev` and `vmap` in smaller, user-defined chunks, determined
by the `chunk_size` argument. This adjustment serves to reduce the peak memory
usage during the computation process. With this argument, users can specify the
number of rows of the Jacobian to be computed at once. This enhancement was
incorporated into the [jacrev PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/89376)
and the [vmap PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/91157).

## Support for `linearize` transform

The "jvp" transform is designed to calculate both `f(x)` and the Jacobian-vector
product. Consequently, even when one intends to compute the Jacobian-vector
product for fixed inputs, the `jvp` transform still redundantly evaluates `f(x)`.
To address such scenarios, the `linearize` transform comes into play. This
transform proves valuable when multiple `jvp` computations are needed for
constant `primals`.

Note that, in order to implement this efficiently, `linearize` stores some
intermediate computations, which can result in higher memory requirements compared
to directly applying `jvp`. The `linearize` transform was implemented in this
[PR](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch/pull/94173).

> ## Supporting `torch.func` transforms for `torch.compile`

Reviewer: Sounds a bit off. Consider
```suggestion
## Support of `torch.func` transforms within `torch.compile`
```

PyTorch 2.0 introduced a JIT compiler under `torch.compile`, similar to `jax.jit`.
This opened up the possibility of compiling the existing transforms to enhance

> their performance. To understand how these transforms can be compiled, it's

Reviewer: nit, avoid contractions
```suggestion
their performance. To understand how these transforms can be compiled, it is
```

essential to discuss the workings of the three layers within the compilation

> stack, which are namely `dynamo`, `aot_autograd`, and `inductor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stack, namely `dynamo`, `aot_autograd`, and `inductor`.
```

operations. For instance, a composite operation like `torch.square` is traced
down to `torch.pow(x, 2)`.

Moreover, `aot_autograd` also manages the creation of the backward graph when
requested. This is useful for transforms like `grad`, `vjp`, etc. Below, you can see the
graph generated by `aot_autograd` for the above program.

```python
def forward(self, arg0_1: f32[3, 3]):
    # File: test/test_scratch.py:334, code: return torch.sin(x) + torch.square(x)
    sin: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.sin.default(arg0_1)
    pow_1: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.pow.Tensor_Scalar(arg0_1, 2);  arg0_1 = None
    add: f32[3, 3] = torch.ops.aten.add.Tensor(sin, pow_1);  sin = pow_1 = None
    return (add,)

```

**inductor**: As discussed above, it is inductor's job to apply optimisations and
generate specialised code. In this case, it has fused `sin` and `square` to run
within the same `for`-loop. This allows the generated program to do more compute
per read/write effectively improving the memory bandwith utilization.

```c++
#include "/tmp/torchinductor_kshiteej/ib/cibrnuq56cxamjj4krp4zpjvsirbmlolpbnmomodzyd46huzhdw7.h"
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0,

>                        float* out_ptr0)
> {
>     {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                       float* out_ptr0){
```
and dedent the rest of the code.
Consider also removing the static_casts from the code below for readability.

        {
            auto tmp0 = in_ptr0[static_cast<long>(i0)];
            auto tmp1 = std::sin(tmp0);
            auto tmp2 = std::cos(tmp0);
            auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
            out_ptr0[static_cast<long>(i0)] = tmp3;
        }
    }
}
```

### Teaching `dynamo` about `torch.func` transforms

Now that we have a basic understanding of how `torch.compile` works, let's
delve into how we extended the support for `torch.func` transforms. Given that
`aot_autograd` is already capable of tracing through the transforms, our task is
to teach `dynamo` to validate whether the user-defined function intended for
transformation is free of side effects affecting the global state or graph-breaks.
In cases where the function meets these criteria, we can put
the `torch.func` transform into the FX graph and delegate the remaining
processing to the lower layers of the stack.

However, if the function cannot be successfully traced due to its failure to
meet the above constraints, we fallback to the eager implementation, and this
particular portion of the code remains uncompiled.

Let us have a look what `dynamo` and `aot_autograd` generates when we compile
program with `vmap`.

> Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: (remove)

            # No stacktrace found for following nodes
            _set_grad_enabled_1 = torch._C._set_grad_enabled(True)
            return sin
```

The graph shown above is handed over to `aot_autograd` for the subsequent phase
of the compilation process. `aot_autograd` performs a trace through the
transformation, resulting in the generation of the transformed graph. This
explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`, as the transformation
has effectively altered the operation from what was originally present in our function.

```python
def forward(self, arg0_1: f32[]):
    # File: torch/_functorch/apis.py:363,
    # code: return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
    full: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.full.default([], 1, dtype = torch.float32,
                                              layout = torch.strided,
                                              device = device(type='cpu'),
                                              pin_memory = False)
    cos: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.cos.default(arg0_1);  arg0_1 = None
    mul: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.mul.Tensor(full, cos);  full = cos = None
    return (mul,)
```

> The inclusion of `torch.func` support within `torch.compile` is an ongoing
> endeavor that is still under active development. At present, our support extends

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The inclusion of `torch.func` support within `torch.compile` is currently
under active development. At present, our support extends
```

> to the compilation of `grad` and `vmap`. However, it's important to note that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the compilation of `grad` and `vmap`. However, it is important to note that
```

there are certain [limitations](https://pytorch.org/docs/main/torch.compiler_faq.html#limitations)
that restrict the range of cases we can compile.

> Looking ahead, our roadmap aims to extend support for all transforms with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking ahead, our roadmap aims to extend the support for all transforms with
```

`vmap(grad(model))`.

Here are a few of the tasks we had the opportunity to tackle:

## Adding Batching Rule for `vmap`
`vmap` is a transformation that accepts a function `func` designed to operate on
a single data point. It then generates a new function capable of applying the
given function to a batched input. When processing batched input, an additional
dimension, denoted by `in_dims`, is introduced to indicate which dimension to
apply the function over. Conceptually, it emulates a `for` loop that iterates
through all data points and stacks the results. Importantly, it performs this
operation efficiently by pushing the `for` loop into the PyTorch operations,
effectively vectorizing the computation. Consider the following example:

Example:
```python
import torch

# Written to handle only single sample.
def my_simple_model(feature_vec, weight):
    return feature_vec.dot(weight).relu()

batch_size = 4
batched_inputs = torch.randn(batch_size, 3)
weight = torch.randn(3)

# For Loop version
expected = []
for input in batched_inputs:
    expected.append(my_simple_model(input, weight))
expected = torch.stack(expected)

# Vmap

> # `in_dims` specifies the dimension that should be mapped over.

Reviewer: or smth. Use simpler words as you have not defined what's to map over

# Verify that the results match.
torch.testing.assert_close(expected, actual)
```

To support `vmap` for PyTorch operators, we need to specify the batching rule
i.e. how to map the given function over a batched input. This is similar to how
PyTorch internally specifies the rule for gradient computation for operators.
Batching rule is essentially a function which takes one or multiple batched
inputs and computes the batched operation. In the above example to support
`vmap` for `my_simple_model`, we need to know the batching rule for `torch.sum`,
`@`/`torch.matmul` and `+`/`torch.add` to be able to vectorize our model.
PyTorch has a lot of operators and we need to have coverage for all the
operators to seamlessly support optimized `vmap`. There is a `for`-loop
fallback in case an operator is not supported so as not to crash the code.

PyTorch operators can be roughly categorized as primitive (internally
`CompositeExplicitAutograd`) vs composite (internally `CompositeImplicitAutograd`).
Primitive operators are the ones for which we specify the batching and
gradient rules. Composite operators are implemented using these the primitive operators.

> Achieving coverage necessitates batching rules for every primitive operator,
> and as a result, we automatically get the rules for composite operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we implement batching rules for every primitive operator, we automatically get 
batching rules for composite operators.
```

aten = torch.ops.aten
assert_size_stride = torch._C._dynamo.guards.assert_size_stride
reinterpret_tensor = torch.ops.inductor._reinterpret_tensor
async_compile = AsyncCompile()

cpp_fused_add_cos_sin_0 = async_compile.cpp('''
#include "/tmp/torchinductor_kshiteej/ib/cibrnuq56cxamjj4krp4zpjvsirbmlolpbnmomodzyd46huzhdw7.h"
extern "C" void kernel(const float* in_ptr0,
                       float* out_ptr0)
{
    {
        for(long i0=static_cast<long>(0L); i0<static_cast<long>(8L); i0+=static_cast<long>(8L))
        {
            auto tmp0 = at::vec::Vectorized<float>::loadu(in_ptr0 + static_cast<long>(i0));
            auto tmp1 = tmp0.sin();
            auto tmp2 = tmp0.cos();
            auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
            tmp3.store(out_ptr0 + static_cast<long>(i0));
        }
        #pragma omp simd simdlen(4) 
        for(long i0=static_cast<long>(8L); i0<static_cast<long>(9L); i0+=static_cast<long>(1L))
        {
            auto tmp0 = in_ptr0[static_cast<long>(i0)];
            auto tmp1 = std::sin(tmp0);
            auto tmp2 = std::cos(tmp0);
            auto tmp3 = tmp1 + tmp2;
            out_ptr0[static_cast<long>(i0)] = tmp3;
        }
    }

> }

Reviewer: Perhaps just put this bit, and simplify the formatting a bit so that it's more readable?

''')

async_compile.wait(globals())
del async_compile

def call(args):
    arg0_1, = args
    args.clear()
    assert_size_stride(arg0_1, (3, 3), (3, 1))
    buf0 = empty_strided((3, 3), (3, 1), device='cpu', dtype=torch.float32)
    cpp_fused_add_cos_sin_0(c_void_p(arg0_1.data_ptr()), c_void_p(buf0.data_ptr()))
    del arg0_1
    return (buf0, )
```

### Teaching `dynamo` about `torch.func` transforms

Now that we have a basic understanding of how `torch.compile` works, let's

> delve into how we can extend the support for `torch.func` transforms. Given that

Reviewer: Is this something the user is expected to do, or is it something it's implemented in `torch.compile` and the user can now simply use?

In cases where the function meets these criteria, we can put
the `torch.func` transform into the FX graph and delegate the remaining
processing to the lower layers of the stack.

However, if the function cannot be successfully traced due to its failure to
meet the above constraints, we fallback to the eager implementation, and this
particular portion of the code remains uncompiled.

Let us have a look what `dynamo` and `aot_autograd` generates when we compile
program with `vmap`.
Example
```python
# Run this file with `TORCH_COMPILE_DEBUG=1` env flag.

import torch

def user_fn(x):
    return torch.sin(x)

def wrapper_fn(x):
    return torch.func.grad(user_fn)(x)

torch.compile(wrapper_fn)(torch.randn(()))

```

The output from `dynamo` is presented below. The initial `GraphModule` pertains
to the `wrapper_fn`, clearly indicating a call to `grad` on the traced representation
of the user's function intended for transformation. Subsequently, the second
`GraphModule` corresponds to the function provided by the user. In this instance,
our function didn't have side effects and graph-breaks. Thus, we were able to

> successfully compile this program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
successfully trace through this program in one graph.
```

explains why we observe a call to `cos` instead of `sin`, as the transformation
has effectively altered the operation from what was originally present in our function.

```python
def forward(self, arg0_1: f32[]):
    # File: torch/_functorch/apis.py:363,
    # code: return eager_transforms.grad_impl(func, argnums, has_aux, args, kwargs)
    full: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.full.default([], 1, dtype = torch.float32,
                                              layout = torch.strided,
                                              device = device(type='cpu'),
                                              pin_memory = False)
    cos: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.cos.default(arg0_1);  arg0_1 = None
    mul: f32[] = torch.ops.aten.mul.Tensor(full, cos);  full = cos = None
    return (mul,)
```

The inclusion of `torch.func` support within `torch.compile` is an ongoing
endeavor that is still under active development. At present, our support extends
to the compilation of `grad` and `vmap`. However, it's important to note that
there are certain [limitations](https://pytorch.org/docs/main/torch.compiler_faq.html#limitations)
that restrict the range of cases we can compile.

> Looking ahead, our future roadmap aims to extend support for all transforms with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking ahead, our roadmap aims to extend support for all transforms with
```
